# Arabidopsis-L.elongata-PGP

Data and scripts used in: 
Vandepol, N., Liber, J., Matlock, J., Bonito, G.M. (2021) Linnemannia elongata stimulates aerial growth, seed production, and responses to auxin, ethylene, and reactive oxygen species in Arabidopsis thaliana. Manuscript in preparation. 

"Microbial promotion of plant growth has great potential to improve agricultural yields and protect plants against pathogens and/or abiotic stresses, while also relieving economic and environmental costs of crop production. Research on several Mortierellaceae species have been published this past decade, however, the extent of the plant growth promotion (PGP) phenotype(s) and the underlying mechanism(s) of association are still not well understood. In this study, we focused on the symbiosis between soil fungus Linnemannia elongata and Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0, as both organisms have reference genomes and transcriptomes available, and their lifestyles and growth requirements are conducive to research conditions. We measured Arabidopsis aerial growth at early and late life stages, seed production, and used mRNA sequencing to characterize differentially expressed plant genes in response to fungal inoculation."

"In this study, we have focused on the symbiosis between L. elongata and Arabidopsis, as both organisms have reference genomes (and transcriptomes) available, and their lifestyles and growth requirements are conducive to research conditions. We used two isolates of L. elongata, NVP64 and NVP80, to better understand mechanisms underlying L. elongata symbioses with plants. Further, these two isolates of L. elongata were isolated from the same soil, but were found to be colonized by different endobacteria; NVP64 contains Mycoavidus cysteinexigens (BRE) while NVP80 contains MRE, designated as NVP64wt and NVP80wt given that they are the wild-types of these strains. To determine whether either endobacterium has an impact on the plant-fungal symbiosis we generated “cured” isogenic lines of each isolate, NVP64cu and NVP80cu, where the endobacteria were removed though antibiotic treatments. We measured PGP of aerial growth at early and late life stages, seed production, and used RNA sequencing to characterize differentially expressed plant genes in response to fungal and endobacteria treatments."
